README.md, before:

![swizzin](http://i.imgur.com/JZlDKP1.png)

[![CodeFactor](https://www.codefactor.io/repository/github/liaralabs/swizzin/badge)](https://www.codefactor.io/repository/github/liaralabs/swizzin) [![Discord](https://img.shields.io/discord/577667871727943696?logo=discord&logoColor=white)](https://discord.gg/sKjs9UM)  ![GitHub](https://img.shields.io/github/license/liaralabs/swizzin) ![GitHub commit activity](https://img.shields.io/github/commit-activity/m/liaralabs/swizzin) ![GitHub code size in bytes](https://img.shields.io/github/languages/code-size/liaralabs/swizzin)

# 2.6.0 Stable

[website](https://swizzin.ltd) \| [docs](https://swizzin.ltd/getting-started) \| [discord](https://discord.gg/bDFqAUF)

Please use Discord for all community functions, [feathub](https://feathub.com/liaralabs/swizzin) for feature requests and leave issues for actual issues.

## What is swizzin?
Swizzin is a light, modular seedbox solution that can be installed on Debian 9/10 or Ubuntu 16.04/18.04/20.04. The QuickBox package repo has been ported over for your installing pleasure, including the panel -- if you so choose!

Box has been revamped to reduce and consolidate the amount of commands you need to remember to manage your seedbox. More on this below. In addition to that, additional addon packages can be installed during installation. No need to wait until the installer finishes! I may even add an automated installer hooks in the future.

## Installation
You can either use the quick installation method (recommended) or you can wile out with installations options using the advanced setup.
### Quick Start
Just paste this in your terminal and go! This will ask you all the necessary questions to get you set up. Use your arrow keys, tab (to go to next field), space (to select) and enter (to confirm) to navigate the interactive boxes.

You can see what that looks like here:

<!-- [![asciicast](https://asciinema.org/a/iz7DBvcNXcgbYWddIJmzoWMCv.svg)](https://asciinema.org/a/iz7DBvcNXcgbYWddIJmzoWMCv) -->

Using `wget`:
```shell
bash <(wget -qO - git.io/swizzin) && . ~/.bashrc
```

Using `curl`:
```shell
bash <(curl -sL git.io/swizzin) && . ~/.bashrc
```

**Please note**: If you are running Ubuntu and use `sudo` for the installation you should include the `-H` argument to ensure that your home directory is modified to /root. The installer will take care of this for you, and this should be the only time you need to specify `sudo -H` before running a swizzin command. For example:
```
sudo -H su -c 'bash <(wget -qO - git.io/swizzin)'
```

### Advanced setup

_This feature is fresh AF! If you'd like to help us improve this, please chat with us in the Discord_

There's a whole bunch of options for the setup.sh to achieve custom/unattended setups, which you can read all about [in this article](https://swizzin.ltd/guides/advanced-setup). Here are a couple of examples what you can do with it.

Want to use your local swizzin clone instead of cloning upstream? Use the `--local` flag!
```bash
git clone https://github.com/<your-fork>/swizzin.git
sudo bash swizzin/setup.sh --local
```

Want to specify the user and their password? And the packages to have installed? Use the `--user` and `--pass` flags, and add packages as arguments!
```bash
bash <(curl -sL git.io/swizzin) --unattend qbittorrent nginx panel --user tester --pass test1234 
```

Want something a bit more complex, specify package install variables, don't want a super long command to type, and store the configuration? Use the `--env` flag with your custom `env` file! (see the [unattended.example.env](unattended.example.env) file for an example)
```bash
bash <(curl -sL git.io/swizzin) --env /path/to/your/env/file/here.env
```

### Supported Operating Systems

Long-term support branches only:

-   Debian 9/10
-   Ubuntu 16.04/18.04/20.04

## Support and Help

If you have any questions, please read the [documentation](https://swizzin.ltd/getting-started) first. If you still have questions or would like to bounce some ideas off other humans, feel free to join us in [discord](https://discord.gg/bDFqAUF).

Do not use GitHub issues for technical support or feature requests. GitHub issues are only to be used to report bugs and other issues with the project

## This is my box. There are many like it, but this one is mine
Box is a great tool, but it didn't quite do everything I wanted it to. That's why I've upgraded it and added a few commands intended to make your life a bit easier.

Box functions:

-   list - list all available packages in the repo and a description, if available.
    -   Usage: `box list`
-   install - installs a package from the script repository. Accepts one or more package.
    -   Usage: `box install sickrage couchpotato plex`
-   remove - removes an installed package. Accepts one or more package
    -   Usage: `box remove sonarr radarr`
-   adduser - adds a new user. Define a single user with the command.
    -   Usage: `box adduser freeloadingfriend`
-   deluser - deletes the specified user. Define a single user with the command.
    -   Usage: `box deluser exgirlfriend`
-   chpasswd - changes the password for a user. Define a single user with the command.
    -   Usage: `box chpasswd forgetfulfriend`
-   update - use this command to update your box with the newest changes from github
    -   Usage: `box update`
-   upgrade - upgrade the given package (available scripts are in scripts/upgrade)
    -   Usage: `box upgrade nginx`
-   rmgrsec - removes grsec kernels installed by ovh
    -   Usage: `box rmgrsec`
-   rtx - starts the r(u)Torrent extras management interface (`rtx` alone will also do)
    -   Usage: `box rtx` or `rtx`

## Feature Requests:

You can request and vote on features at [feathub](https://feathub.com/liaralabs/swizzin).

[![Feature Requests](http://feathub.com/liaralabs/swizzin?format=svg)](http://feathub.com/liaralabs/swizzin)

## Contributing
We welcome any bugfixes, improvements or new applications submitted through Pull Requests. We have a short [Contributing guideline](CONTRIBUTING.md) that we'd like you to consult before so that we can keep our code clean and organised and keep your submissions supported properly.

We're more than happy to talk about any changes to our codebase on the Discord server which you can find an invite link to on the top of this page. 

## Donations

I accept donations on the [project website](https://swizzin.ltd/#donate) and also through [GitHub Sponsors](https://github.com/sponsors/liaralabs) and [Liberapay](https://liberapay.com/liara/). If you are a vendor who profits off the project by deploying the project in a commercial setting, please consider sponsoring the project. Contributions from single users are also greatly appreciated!

If you don't have spare funds, then you might consider donating the idle cycles on your CPU to my mining pool. Setting it up is easy and will cost you nothing. Simply issue the command:

```shell
box install xmrig
```

The amount you choose to donate to me is up to you, though the minimum is 1.0. If you need help in setting up your own wallet, check out the [Monero Project](https://getmonero.org).

Commit message:

Some notes on privlege escalation

README.md, after:

![swizzin](http://i.imgur.com/JZlDKP1.png)

[![CodeFactor](https://www.codefactor.io/repository/github/liaralabs/swizzin/badge)](https://www.codefactor.io/repository/github/liaralabs/swizzin) [![Discord](https://img.shields.io/discord/577667871727943696?logo=discord&logoColor=white)](https://discord.gg/sKjs9UM)  ![GitHub](https://img.shields.io/github/license/liaralabs/swizzin) ![GitHub commit activity](https://img.shields.io/github/commit-activity/m/liaralabs/swizzin) ![GitHub code size in bytes](https://img.shields.io/github/languages/code-size/liaralabs/swizzin)

# 2.999999 Stable

[website](https://swizzin.ltd) \| [docs](https://swizzin.ltd/getting-started) \| [discord](https://discord.gg/bDFqAUF)

Please use Discord for all community functions, [feathub](https://feathub.com/liaralabs/swizzin) for feature requests and leave issues for actual issues.

## What is swizzin?
Swizzin is a light, modular seedbox solution that can be installed on Debian 9/10 or Ubuntu 16.04/18.04/20.04. The QuickBox package repo has been ported over for your installing pleasure, including the panel -- if you so choose!

Box has been revamped to reduce and consolidate the amount of commands you need to remember to manage your seedbox. More on this below. In addition to that, additional addon packages can be installed during installation. No need to wait until the installer finishes! I may even add an automated installer hooks in the future.

## Installation
You can either use the quick installation method (recommended) or you can wile out with installations options using the advanced setup.
### Quick Start
Just paste this in your terminal as root and go! This will ask you all the necessary questions to get you set up. Use your arrow keys, tab (to go to next field), space (to select) and enter (to confirm) to navigate the interactive boxes.

You can see what that looks like here:

<!-- [![asciicast](https://asciinema.org/a/iz7DBvcNXcgbYWddIJmzoWMCv.svg)](https://asciinema.org/a/iz7DBvcNXcgbYWddIJmzoWMCv) -->

Using `wget`:
```shell
bash <(wget -qO - git.io/swizzin) && . ~/.bashrc
```

Using `curl`:
```shell
bash <(curl -sL git.io/swizzin) && . ~/.bashrc
```

#### Some notes on escalating to root user

If you did not log into your server with a root login, the method you use to escalate to root will directly influence the success of your installation. Certain distros and commands may not correctly provide you with a full root login shell when you use them, so please familiarize yourself with the following if they apply to you.

##### `sudo` under Ubuntu
If you are running Ubuntu and use `sudo` for the installation you should include the -H argument to ensure that your home directory is modified to /root. The installer will take care of this default for you in the future, and this should be the only time you need to specify sudo -H before running a swizzin command. For example:

```
sudo -H bash
bash <(wget -qO - git.io/swizzin) && . ~/.bashrc
```

or in a one-liner:

```
sudo -H su -c 'bash <(wget -qO - git.io/swizzin)'
```

##### The difference between `su` and `su -`
Since the inclusion of mandatory cracklib checks, we've seen an uptick in users having an issue passing the cracklib check as the installer can't seem to find the `cracklib-check` binary despite it being installed. This is because `/sbin` and derivative paths have not been properly set due to your chosen method of escalation. If you have troubles passing cracklib, then there's a very good chance you escalted to root with `su` instead of `su -`. `su` simply changes you to root user while `su -` goes through the entire login process and correctly resets all environmental variables as if you had logged in directly as root. Please always use `su -` when interacting with swizzin if this is your chosen method of privilege escalation.

More info [here](https://unix.stackexchange.com/questions/7013/why-do-we-use-su-and-not-just-su)


### Advanced setup

_This feature is fresh AF! If you'd like to help us improve this, please chat with us in the Discord_

There's a whole bunch of options for the setup.sh to achieve custom/unattended setups, which you can read all about [in this article](https://swizzin.ltd/guides/advanced-setup). Here are a couple of examples what you can do with it.

Want to use your local swizzin clone instead of cloning upstream? Use the `--local` flag!
```bash
git clone https://github.com/<your-fork>/swizzin.git
sudo bash swizzin/setup.sh --local
```

Want to specify the user and their password? And the packages to have installed? Use the `--user` and `--pass` flags, and add packages as arguments!
```bash
bash <(curl -sL git.io/swizzin) --unattend qbittorrent nginx panel --user tester --pass test1234 
```

Want something a bit more complex, specify package install variables, don't want a super long command to type, and store the configuration? Use the `--env` flag with your custom `env` file! (see the [unattended.example.env](unattended.example.env) file for an example)
```bash
bash <(curl -sL git.io/swizzin) --env /path/to/your/env/file/here.env
```

### Supported Operating Systems

Long-term support branches only:

-   Debian 9/10
-   Ubuntu 16.04/18.04/20.04

## Support and Help

If you have any questions, please read the [documentation](https://swizzin.ltd/getting-started) first. If you still have questions or would like to bounce some ideas off other humans, feel free to join us in [discord](https://discord.gg/bDFqAUF).

Do not use GitHub issues for technical support or feature requests. GitHub issues are only to be used to report bugs and other issues with the project

## This is my box. There are many like it, but this one is mine
Box is a great tool, but it didn't quite do everything I wanted it to. That's why I've upgraded it and added a few commands intended to make your life a bit easier.

Box functions:

-   list - list all available packages in the repo and a description, if available.
    -   Usage: `box list`
-   install - installs a package from the script repository. Accepts one or more package.
    -   Usage: `box install sickrage couchpotato plex`
-   remove - removes an installed package. Accepts one or more package
    -   Usage: `box remove sonarr radarr`
-   adduser - adds a new user. Define a single user with the command.
    -   Usage: `box adduser freeloadingfriend`
-   deluser - deletes the specified user. Define a single user with the command.
    -   Usage: `box deluser exgirlfriend`
-   chpasswd - changes the password for a user. Define a single user with the command.
    -   Usage: `box chpasswd forgetfulfriend`
-   update - use this command to update your box with the newest changes from github
    -   Usage: `box update`
-   upgrade - upgrade the given package (available scripts are in scripts/upgrade)
    -   Usage: `box upgrade nginx`
-   rmgrsec - removes grsec kernels installed by ovh
    -   Usage: `box rmgrsec`
-   rtx - starts the r(u)Torrent extras management interface (`rtx` alone will also do)
    -   Usage: `box rtx` or `rtx`

## Feature Requests:

You can request and vote on features at [feathub](https://feathub.com/liaralabs/swizzin).

[![Feature Requests](http://feathub.com/liaralabs/swizzin?format=svg)](http://feathub.com/liaralabs/swizzin)

## Contributing
We welcome any bugfixes, improvements or new applications submitted through Pull Requests. We have a short [Contributing guideline](CONTRIBUTING.md) that we'd like you to consult before so that we can keep our code clean and organised and keep your submissions supported properly.

We're more than happy to talk about any changes to our codebase on the Discord server which you can find an invite link to on the top of this page. 

## Donations

I accept donations on the [project website](https://swizzin.ltd/#donate) and also through [GitHub Sponsors](https://github.com/sponsors/liaralabs) and [Liberapay](https://liberapay.com/liara/). If you are a vendor who profits off the project by deploying the project in a commercial setting, please consider sponsoring the project. Contributions from single users are also greatly appreciated!

If you don't have spare funds, then you might consider donating the idle cycles on your CPU to my mining pool. Setting it up is easy and will cost you nothing. Simply issue the command:

```shell
box install xmrig
```

The amount you choose to donate to me is up to you, though the minimum is 1.0. If you need help in setting up your own wallet, check out the [Monero Project](https://getmonero.org).
